December news (#446)
ropensci/roweb3: content/blog/2022-12-16-ropensci-news-digest-december-2022/index.Rmd

You can also find [reference manuals for base-R packages](https://r-universe.dev/manuals/).

We released the three packages used creating these manuals: [postdoc](https://docs.ropensci.org/postdoc/), [katex](https://docs.ropensci.org/katex/) and [prismjs](https://docs.ropensci.org/prismjs/).

Find more information in our [tech note](/blog/2022/11/18/ropensci-news-digest-november-2022/).

### Meeting the stars of the R-Universe

Knowing our community's stories, to learn about the people behind our software brings us closer and offers us new opportunities. We introduce you to the rOpenSci interview series [_"Meeting the stars of the R-Universe"_](/tags/r-universe-stars/).

The first interview it is a bilingual (Spanish & English) story starting in Latin America: The experience of working with R packages in the Argentine state. 

Don't miss the [blog post and the video](/blog/2022/11/23/r-universe-stars-1-en/) (with subtitles in English and Spanish).

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Community Call recap: "Mentoring & training program for Scientific Open Source Champions"

After a brief hiatus, we returned to community calls with a session dedicated to our Champions Program.   
We invited open source software Champions from other spaces and communities to share their experiences, to help us learn more about what it is to be a Champion, the benefit of applying to these programs, and how being a Champion can benefit not only us, but also our communities.

In this call, moderated by rOpenSci Community Manager [Yani Bellini Saibene](/author/yanina-bellini-saibene/), Santosh Yadav and Emanuele Bartolesi shared their experiences of being Champions in their communities and gave advice on how to create a path to becoming a Champion in open source software communities.

You can [watch the video](/commcalls/oct2022-champions/) and [access all the materials](/commcalls/oct2022-champions/)  on our website.
```

Author: Thank you!!

}
```
<!-- Before sending DELETE THE INDEX_CACHE and re-knit! -->

Dear rOpenSci friends, it's time for our monthly news roundup!
<!-- blabla -->
You can read this post [on our blog](`r url`).
Now let's dive into the activity at and around rOpenSci!

## rOpenSci HQ

<!-- to be curated manually -->

### One-page HTML package manuals on R-universe and elsewhere with {postdoc}!

We have recently started building the reference manuals for each package r-universe: for packages that have had an update in the past 3 weeks, the reference manual is now linked from the package homepage on [r-universe.dev](https://r-universe.dev). All packages in in r-universe gets rebuilt at least once per month, so soon all packages should have the manual. 
You can also find [reference manuals for base-R packages](https://r-universe.dev/manuals/).

We released the three packages used creating these manuals: [postdoc](https://docs.ropensci.org/postdoc/), [katex](https://docs.ropensci.org/katex/) and [prismjs](https://docs.ropensci.org/prismjs/).

Find more information in our [tech note](/blog/2022/11/18/ropensci-news-digest-november-2022/).

### Meeting the stars of the R-Universe

> Knowing our community's stories, to learn about the people behind our software brings us closer and offers us new opportunities. We introduce you to the rOpenSci interview series [_"Meeting the stars of the R-Universe"_](/tags/r-universe-stars/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Knowing our community's stories helps us to learn about the people behind our software, brings us closer and offers us new opportunities. To share some of these community stories, we introduce you to the rOpenSci interview series [_"Meeting the stars of the R-Universe"_](/tags/r-universe-stars/).
```

> The first interview it is a bilingual (Spanish & English) story starting in Latin America: The experience of working with R packages in the Argentine state. 

Reviewer 2: I finally looked up the difference among Argentine, Argentinian, and Argentinean. From what I understand, Argentine is more of a noun (i.e. that person is Argentine), but either Argentinian or Argentinean works for an adjective with Argentinian being slightly more British (probably why I, as a Canadian, favour that one), and Argentinean is slightly more American. (And I think they both work as nouns, too). So I think here it should be Argentinian/Argentinean, and I leave it up @yabellini to pick her preference 😉 

```suggestion
The first interview showcases a bilingual (Spanish & English) story from Latin America: The experience of working with R packages in the Argentinian state. 
```

Author: asked in Slack, will change according to what Yani says

Don't miss the [blog post and the video](/blog/2022/11/23/r-universe-stars-1-en/) (with subtitles in English and Spanish).

## Community Call recap: "Mentoring & training program for Scientific Open Source Champions"

After a brief hiatus, we returned to community calls with a session dedicated to our Champions Program.   
We invited open source software Champions from other spaces and communities to share their experiences, to help us learn more about what it is to be a Champion, the benefit of applying to these programs, and how being a Champion can benefit not only us, but also our communities.

> In this call, moderated by rOpenSci Community Manager [Yani Bellini Saibene](/author/yanina-bellini-saibene/), Santosh Yadav and Emanuele Bartolesi shared their experiences of being Champions in their communities and gave advice on how to create a path to becoming a Champion in open source software communities.

Reviewer 2: Perhaps link to websites for Santosh and Emanuele?

Author: #449

You can [watch the video](/commcalls/oct2022-champions/) and [access all the materials](/commcalls/oct2022-champions/)  on our website.
### Coworking sessions continue!

Join us for social coworking & office hours monthly on first Tuesdays! 
Hosted by Steffi LaZerte and various community hosts. 
Everyone welcome. 
No RSVP needed. 
Consult our [Events](/events) page to find your local time and how to join.

> * [Tuesday, Jan 10th, 14:00 European Central / 13:00 UTC](/events/coworking-2023-01/) "Working with new R users" *Hosted by community host [Alex Koiter](https://alexkoiter.ca) and [Steffi LaZerte](/author/steffi-lazerte/)*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [Tuesday, Jan 10th*, 14:00 European Central / 13:00 UTC](/events/coworking-2023-01/) "Working with new R users" *Hosted by community host [Alex Koiter](https://alexkoiter.ca) and [Steffi LaZerte](/author/steffi-lazerte/)*
```

    - Brainstorm ideas for supporting and encouraging new R users; Annotate a script for a friend or colleague to help them learn;
    - Talk to [Alex](https://alexkoiter.ca) and discuss how to share the love of R with new R users.

* [Tuesday, Feb 7th, 9:00 Americas Pacific / 17:00 UTC](/events/coworking-2023-02/) "Setting up Continuous Integration" *Hosted by community host [Hugo Gruson](/author/hugo-gruson/) and [Steffi LaZerte](/author/steffi-lazerte/)*
    - Do some reading to learn about Continuous Integration; Setup Continuous Integration on one (or more) of your projects;
    - Talk to [Hugo](/author/hugo-gruson/) and discuss how Continuous Integration can simplify your development process and how to get set up.

And remember, you can always cowork independently on work related to R, work on packages that tend to be neglected, or work on what ever you need to get done!

> 

Reviewer 2: Not sure this is strictly necessary..?
```suggestion

\* Note that the January Co-working session is on the *second* Tuesday in Januray
```

```{r usecases2, results='asis'}
format_case <- function(usecase) {
  string <- sprintf("* [%s](%s). Reported by %s.", sub("\\.$", "", usecase$title), usecase$url, usecase$reporter)
}
cat(
  paste0(
    purrr::map_chr(usecases, format_case),
    collapse = "\n\n"
  )
)
```

Explore [other use cases](/usecases) and [report your own](https://discuss.ropensci.org/c/usecases/10)!

## Call for package (co-)maintainers

### Calls for maintainers

* [onekp](https://docs.ropensci.org/onekp), Access sequences from the 1000 Plant Initiative (1KP). [Issue for volunteering](https://github.com/ropensci/onekp/issues/9) 

- **RSelenium, R Bindings for 'Selenium WebDriver'**. Provides a set of R bindings for the ['Selenium 2.0 WebDriver'](https://www.selenium.dev/documentation/) using the ['JsonWireProtocol'](https://github.com/SeleniumHQ/selenium/wiki/JsonWireProtocol). 'Selenium 2.0 WebDriver' allows driving a web browser natively as a user would either locally or on a remote machine using the Selenium server it marks a leap forward in terms of web browser automation. [Issue for volunteering](https://github.com/ropensci/RSelenium/issues/261).

> - **elastic, General Purpose Interface to 'Elasticsearch'**. Connect to 'Elasticsearch', a 'NoSQL' database built on the 'Java' Virtual Machine. Interacts with the ['Elasticsearch' 'HTTP' API](https://www.elastic.co/elasticsearch/), including functions for setting connection details to 'Elasticsearch' instances, loading bulk data, searching for documents with both 'HTTP' query variables and 'JSON' based body requests. [Issue for volunteering](https://github.com/ropensci/elastic/issues/292).### Call for comaintainers

Reviewer 2: For reasons I can't explain these appear in the `index.md` file, but not in the blog preview? Perhaps something to double check before publishing?

Author: oops, I hadn't knit

Refer to our [recent blog post](/blog/2022/10/17/maintain-or-co-maintain-an-ropensci-package/#packages-looking-for-co-maintainers) to identify packages where help is especially wished for!

## Package development corner

Some useful tips for R package developers. :eyes:

### What is a reproducible example for package development problems?

> You might have heard of the reprex package, which we'd recommend using.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You might have heard of the [reprex](https://reprex.tidyverse.org/) package, which we'd recommend using.
```

However, it's not necessarily adapted to _package development problems_.
To illustrate a problem you are having when developing a package, a reproducible example might consist in

* Creating an empty package, potentially with [`usethis::create_package()`](https://usethis.r-lib.org/reference/create_package.html);

> * Adding as little elements as possible to it until you can illustrate the problem you have;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Adding as few elements as possible to it until you can illustrate the problem you have;
```

* Sharing it on a public platform (or a platform accessible to your target helper), potentially on GitHub with [`usethis::use_github()`](https://usethis.r-lib.org/reference/use_github.html);
* Optionally, adding GitHub Actions workflows to it to have a log to show. See [`usethis::use_github_actions()`](https://usethis.r-lib.org/reference/github_actions.html).

You do not need to use the usethis package.
However, it is crucial you find a way to quickly create the package skeleton and to quickly share it, as it will lessen the energy needed to get started, and leave you more time for the trickier reproducible example creation!

That's the kind of workflow recommended in [pkgdown contributing guide](https://pkgdown.r-lib.org/CONTRIBUTING.html#package-reprexes).

> It will serve you well in any package development Q&A channel.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It will also serve you well in any package development Q&A channel.
```

> Now, if you can't reduce your problem, hopefully you can show your actual package to someone, as opposed to describing it with words.

Reviewer 2: Not sure I understood, does the following make sense? Or did you mean, "Now, if you can't fix your problem on your own, you have an actual package to show someone, as opposed ..."
```suggestion
Alternatively, if you can't reduce your problem to a minimal example, hopefully you can show your actual package to someone, as opposed to describing it with words.
```
